Now let's talk about a delay queue.

So a delay queue is to delay messages so that consumers

don't see them immediately.

And this can be a delay of up to 15 minutes.

By default, the delay parameter is zero seconds.

That means that as soon as you send the message

into an SQS queue, the message will be available right away

to be read but you can set a default at the queue level

to say all the messages should be delayed by X number

of seconds or every time you send a message

you can set a per-message delay

if you wanted to using the DelaySeconds parameter.

So we have a queue.

Our producer will send a message to that queue

and the queue, for example, has a default value

for how long that message should be delayed.

And so maybe it's like 30 seconds.

And so after 30 seconds, then when a consumer polls

for messages, it will see that message

and receive it successfully.

So let's go into the console to see

how that works in practice.

So back in SQS, I'm going to create a queue

and I will call this one DelayQueue.

And as we can see here, we have a new setting

called delivery delay.

And so by default, it is zero seconds but we can set it

all the way to 15 minutes.

So I'm just going to set this to 10 seconds

so that messages will wait 10 seconds

before being read by a consumer.

Okay, the rest will be standard so we'll just go ahead

and click on Create queue.

Now my delay queue is created.

I will go ahead and send and receive messages.

And let's enter a random message.

Now, as you can see, by default, the deliver delay

has been created into the console

and it says 10 seconds but we can override it.

For example, you could say 30 or we could say zero

or maybe longer but we'll leave it as a default

of 10 seconds.

So I'm going to start polling for messages.

And as you can see, no messages are received.

And I'm going to send a message right now.

And we have to wait 10 seconds.

One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10.

And hopefully by now the message should appear

in my consumer.

And here it is. It's been 10 seconds.

And so, as you can see, there was a delay between the send

and the actual delivery of that message.

And for some use cases, this may be something

that you want and that's something that may be desirable.

But as a certified AWS person, you should know

that this functionality exists.

So that's it, very short demo but I hope that was helpful.

And I will see you in the next lecture.

