So just a short lecture

on how to scale Kinesis

and for this, we talk about

Shard Splitting and Shard Merging.

So Shard Splitting is used to split a shard into two.

So that means we have more shards

and so it's used to increase the Stream capacity.

So if we add more shards by splitting a shard

we get an extra one megabyte

per second of throughput per shot.

So it's used for example,

when you want to divide a hot shard,

for example, Shard two is very hot,

a lot of data is sent to it.

We're going to split the shard

and we're gonna get shard four and five out of it

and by having the new shards,

we've increased our stream throughput from three megabytes

per second to four megabytes per second.

So we've increased the capacity of course

but because we are being built in terms

of how many shards we have in our stream

we've also increased the cost of our Kinesis Data Stream .

The old shard is going to be closed

or Shard two will not be written two anymore

and the old data will be expired after some time.

So depending on what your retention period is

between one to 365 days, you will have to wait this long.

Then the data is expired

and then finally, the shard will be deleted.

There is no auto-scaling in Kinesis Data Streams

although you can find a way to create your own auto-scaling

and there is a solution architecture for that

but there's no setting to do auto-scaling

with Kinesis Data Streams and so it is

for you to manually increase or decrease capacity.

And you cannot split a shard into more than two

shards in a single operation.

If you wanted to do so,

you will need to do many different Shards Splitting.

Now the opposite operation of

Shard Splitting is Merging Shards .

So you realize that you want to decrease

from capacity and save costs.

In this case, you can group two shards

that have low traffic so cold shards

and you're going to merge them together into a new shard.

So in this example, Shard one

and four are merged into Shard six

and this is used to decrease capacity and the cost.

Then the old shard again, will be closed for rights

and they will be deleted once the data has expired

within the shards.

You can not emerge more

than two shards in a single operation

and with Shard Splitting and Shards Merging

you've seen how to scale up and down Kinesis.

That's it, that's all you need to know.

I hope you liked this lecture

and I will see you in the next lecture.