So now let's talk about

Kinesis Data Analytics.

And there are two flavors of it.

There is the first one for SQL applications,

and the second one for Apache Flink.

So let's first talk about the first kind,

which is Kinesis Data Analytics for SQL Applications.

So it sits in the center.

And the two data sources that it's able to read from

are Kinesis Data Streams and Kinesis Data Firehose.

So you can read from either of those,

and then you can apply SQL statements

to perform your real-time analytics.

It's also possible for you to join some reference data

by referencing it from an Amazon S3 bucket.

This will, for example,

allow you to enrich the data in real-time.

Then you can send data to various destinations,

and there are two of them.

The first one is a Kinesis data stream.

So you can create a stream

out of a Kinesis Data Analytics real-time query,

or you can send it directly into Kinesis Data Firehose,

each with their own use cases.

If you send directly into Kinesis Data Firehose,

then you can send into Amazon S3, Amazon Redshift,

or Amazon OpenSearch, or any other Firehose destinations.

Whereas if you send it into a Kinesis data stream,

you can do real-time processing of that stream of data

using AWS Lambda

or whatever applications you are running on EC2 instances.

So remember this diagram,

this is for Kinesis Data Analytics for SQL Applications.

Now, if we go into the details, as I said,

the two sources are only Kinesis Data Streams and Firehose.

You can enrich using data from Amazon S3.

It's a fully managed service,

you don't provision any servers.

There is automatic scaling,

and you actually pay for

whatever goes through Kinesis Data Analytics.

In terms of output, as I said,

you can go into Kinesis Data Streams

or Kinesis Data Firehose.

And the use cases would be to do time-series analytics,

real-time dashboards, or real-time metrics.

So that's for the first kind of Kinesis Data Analytics.

The second one is Kinesis Data Analytics for Apache Flink.

So as the name indicates,

you can use actually Apache Flink on the service.

And so if you use Flink,

you can write your application

using Java, Scala, or even SQL

to process and analyze streaming data.

So you may say, "Well, that's

the same thing, isn't it, from before?"

And it's not.

So Flink are special applications you need to write as code.

And what it allows you is that

you can actually run these Flink applications

on the cluster that's dedicated to it

on Kinesis Data Analytics.

But it's all behind the scenes.

And with Apache Flink,

you can read from two main data sources,

you can read from Kinesis Data Streams or Amazon MSK.

So with this service,

you run any Flink application on a managed cluster on AWS.

And the idea is that

Flink is going to be a lot more powerful

than just standard SQL.

So if you need advanced querying capability,

or to read streaming data from other services

such as Kinesis Data Streams or Amazon MSK,

which is managed Kafka on AWS,

then you would use this service.

So with this service,

you get automatic provisioning of compute resources,

parallel computation, and automatic scaling.

You get application backups,

they're implemented as checkpoints and snapshots.

You can use any of the Apache Flink programming features.

And just so you know,

with Flink you can only read

from Kinesis Data Streams and Amazon MSK.

You cannot read from Kinesis Data Firehose.

If you need to read and do real-time analytics

on Kinesis Data Firehose,

then you must use Kinesis Data Analytics for SQL.

Okay, so that's it for this lecture.

I hope you liked it.

And I will see you in the next lecture.