Okay, so let's discuss

different storage classes we have for Amazon S three.

The first one is Amazon S three Standard-General Purpose.

Then we have Amazon S three-Infrequent Access.

Then we have Amazon S three One Zone-Infrequent Access.

Then we have Glacier Instant Retrieval,

Glacier Flexible Retrieval, Glacier Deep Archive,

and then finally, the Amazon S three Intelligent Tiering.

So we'll learn about all these classes in depth

in this lecture, but you have to know them for the exam.

Then when you create an object in Amazon S three,

you can choose its class,

you can also modify its storage class manually,

or as we'll see as well,

you can use Amazon S3 Lifecycle configurations

to move objects automatically

between all these storage classes.

So first, before we go into the classes,

let's define the concept of durability and availability.

So durability represents how many times an object

is going to be lost by Amazon S three.

And so Amazon S three has a very high durability.

It's called 11 nines.

So nine nine point and then nine times nine percent.

And that means that on average,

if you store 10 million objects on Amazon S three,

you can expect to lose a single object

once every 10,000 years.

So it's quite durable.

And the durability is the same

for all storage classes in Amazon S three.

Availability represents how readily a service is.

And so this depends on the storage class.

For example, S three Standard has a 99.99% availability.

That means that about 53 minutes a year,

the service is not going to be available.

That means that you'll get some errors

when you deal with the service.

So you need to take that into account

when you develop your applications.

Okay.

So S3 standard has 99.99 availability.

It's going to be used for frequently accessed data.

This is the kind of storage you use by default,

and it has low latency and high throughputs.

It can sustain two concurrent facility failures

on the side of AWS and the use cases for it

is going to be big data analytics,

mobile and gaming application,

as well as content distribution.

Next, we have S three infrequent access.

So this is data that is going to be as the name indicates,

less frequently accessed,

but requires rapid access when needed.

It's going to be lower cost than S three Standard,

but you will have a cost on retrieval.

So the S three Standard-IA is 99.9% availability,

so a bit less available.

And the use case for it is going to be Disaster Recovery

and backups.

And Amazon S three One Zone-Infrequent access, One Zone-IA.

ESC has high durability, okay, within a single AZ only,

and the data is going to be lost

if the AZ is somewhat destroyed.

As well as durability, it's even lower.

So it's 99.5% availability.

And so the use cases of S three One Zone-IA

is to store secondary copy of backups

of maybe on-premises data, or data you can recreate.

Next we have the Glacier Storage Classes.

So Glacier is, as the name it gets very cold,

so it's low cost object storage

meant for archiving and backup.

And the pricing is that you're going to pay for the storage

plus pay for a retrieval cost.

In your three classes of storage within Glacier,

you have the Amazon S three Glacier Instant Retrieval.

And this gives you milliseconds retrieval

which is great for example,

for data that's accessed once a quarter,

and the minimum store duration is 90 days.

So this is backup,

but you need to access it within milliseconds.

Then we have the Glacier Flexible Retrieval.

It used to be called Amazon S three Glacier

but then they renamed things as they added more tier.

So the Amazon Glacier Flexible Retrieval

has three flexibility.

So you have expedited where you get the data back

between one and five minutes.

You have standard to get the data back

between three to five hours, or bulk, which is free,

where you get data back between five to 12 hours.

And the minimum storage duration as well is 90 days.

So here, instance means you retrieve data instantly

and flexible means that you're willing

to wait up to for example, 12 hours to retrieve your data.

And then we have Glacier Deep Archive

which is meant for long term storage.

So we have two tiers of retrieval as well.

We have Standard of 12 hours and Bulk of 48 hours.

So you may be ready to wait a lot of time

to retrieve data,

but it's going to give you the lowest cost,

and as well, the minimum storage duration is 180 days.

So as you know, that's a lot of storage classes

and there's one last called S three Intelligent- Tiering,

which is going to allow you to move objects

between excess tiers based on usage patterns.

And for this, you're going to incur a small

monthly monitoring fee, and auto tiering fee.

And there are no retrieval charges

in S three Intelligent- Tiering.

So there is the frequent access tier that's automatic

the default tier.

Then we have the Infrequent Access tier

for objects not accessed for example, for 30 days.

Then you have the Archive Instant Access tier,

automatic as well for objects not accessed over 90 days.

And then the Archive Access tier that's optional.

And you can configure it from 90 days to 700 plus days.

And then you have the Deep Archive Access tier

also optional, that you can configure for objects

that haven't been accessed between 180 days

to 700 plus days.

Okay.

So S three Intelligent-Tiering is really

to allow you to just sit back and relax

while S three moves objects for you.

So if you compare all the storage classes

you don't need to remember these numbers,

but it's just for you to make sense of what they are.

So you get durability of 11 nine's everywhere.

Then as availability goes down, the less zones you have,

of course.

It just shows you like for example

the minimum storage duration chart and so on.

So take some time to look at this diagram on your own.

You should understand it,

but you should not remember it for sure.

So if we look at some pricing, for example

in the us-east-one,

so this is the kind of pricing you would have

for all the storage classes.

And again, you're not supposed to remember everything.

But it's good for you to have a look at it

on your own time, just to make sure you understand.

Because if you understand what the classes name are,

then you should be able to make sense of these classes.

Okay?

So that's it for the lecture.

I hope you liked it.

And I will see you in the next lecture.


0:01 / 3:37
Transcript
So let's create a new bucket industry

and call it "s3-storage-classes-demos-2022."

Okay. Then I create into any kinda region,

and I will go ahead and just create this bucket.

So back in my bucket, I can go ahead

and upload a object, and click on add files.

I will choose my coffee.JPEG.

And let's have a look at the options.

So we can look at the properties

of that object,

and under storage class, I get the wide range

of storage class that are for AWS objects.

So we have S3 standard, okay,

and we get the design four column.

How many AZ's we have,

as well as some other (indistinct)

the minimum storage duration,

minimum billable object size,

and monitoring and auto-tiering fees.

So let's have a look at all of them.

So we have standard, which is the basic ones by default.

Then we get intelligent tiering,

in case we don't know our data patterns,

and therefore we want AWS

to perform the data tiering for us.

Standard-IA, if we want data to be infrequently accessed,

but still with low latency.

One-Zone-IA,

which is that you can recreate this data,

and it's going to be stored in one AZ only.

And therefore you can

run the risk of losing the object,

if the AZ is destroyed.

Then we have three glacier levels.

So we have Glacier Instant Retrieval,

Glacier Flexible Retrieval,

or a Glacier Deep Archive,

and it tells you exactly

what are the conditions in here.

And finally, Reduced Redundancy,

which is a deprecated type of storage tier,

and therefore I did not describe it in the course.

So what if we go with standard IA

for example, and create an object there.

So we're going there,

and then we're going to say upload.

Back in our bucket.

So now this object has the storage class, Standard-IA,

as it is shown here.

But what I can do is

that I can also change the storage class

if I wanted to.

So I can go into properties and scroll down,

and we can actually edit the storage class

to do something different.

So we can move it for example,

to One-Zone-IA,

in which case this object is going

to be stored in one zone only.

So let's save these changes.

And now my object has successfully been edited

and therefore the object class has changed.

So if we scroll down, now we are in One-Zone-IA.

And again, you could edit it,

and go, for example, for Glacier-Instant-Retrieval.

And now it's going to be archived,

or you can go for Intelligent-Tiering,

and it could be automatically set

to the right tier based on our patterns, and so on.

So you can see there's a lot of power using storage classes.

And finally,

I want to show you how we can automate moving these objects

between the different storage classes.

So let's go back

into our buckets, and there under management,

you can create lifecycle rules.

And you can create a rule,

and we'll call this one "DemoRule."

And then you're going to say,

"hey," apply to all objects in the buckets.

Yeah, sure.

And then we can say, okay

move current versions between storage classes.

And you're saying, hey, you go

to Standard-IA after, for example, 30 days.

And then you go to Intelligent-Tiering after 60 days.

And then you would go to Glacier-Flexible-Retrieval

after 180 days,

and so on.

So you get some transitions.

And in here you can review

all the transitions you have done.

So it is possible

for you to automate moving objects between tiers.

Okay. So that's it,

we've seen everything we need to know about storage classes.

I hope you liked it.

And I will see you in the next lecture.