So let's talk about

user-defined object metadata and S3 object tags.

So when you create an objects,

when you upload an object, you can also assign metadata.

And metadata is just a fancy name for key-value pairs

attached to your objects.

So if you upload user-defined metadata,

you must have the name that begins with x-amz-meta-

because there is metadata that is generated by AWS.

So the metadata can be retrieved

while retrieving the object

and it gives you information about the object itself.

So the first two, for example, for this S3 object

is the Content-Length and the Content-Type

of 7.5 kilobytes and html.

This is provided by AWS.

And the x-amz-meta-origin: paris

is just something that you have defined yourself

for whatever reason.

Next, we have S3 object tags.

So this is more common

because this is tags as you've seen them in AWS.

There are key-value pairs for your objects in Amazon S3.

And the reason we have tags versus metadata

is that the tags can actually be used

for fine-grained permissions.

For example, to only give access to specific objects

with specific tags within AWS.

Or for analytics purposes.

For example, if you use a solution like S3 Analytics,

you can group your findings by tags.

So for example, for this S3 object,

we can have Project: Blue,

and PHI, personal health information, True.

There's just some information,

you may want to provide for your objects.

So the most important thing

I want you to remember out of this lecture

is that the metadata and the tags

are not searchable on Amazon S3.

You cannot filter by metadata, you cannot filter by tags.

That is just not possible.

So why do we want this in the first place

and how would we search objects onto our S3 buckets?

Well, if you do want to search your S3 buckets,

you must build an external index in a database,

such as DynamoDB, but it could be whatever you want.

And we'll see DB later on.

But you will put all that metadata

and all these tags into a searchable index in DynamoDB

and then you will perform your search on DynamoDB.

And the results of your search will be extracted

as objects on Amazon S3.

So it's a common exam question

and something you need to know about for this architecture.

Okay, that's it for this lecture.

I hope you liked it.

And I will see you in the next lecture.

