So this was a heavy section and without any hands-on,

so that may have been confusing,

but really I don't want to bug you down with hands-on

because this is not for a Certified Developer.

You just need to remember a few concepts

out of this whole section,

so I'm going to summarize everything in one slide.

And trust me, you will be all set

on all the VPC questions going into the exam, okay?

So don't stress it out.

The first one is VPC which stands for Virtual Private Cloud.

And we've been using the default VPC

all along this course when we created our EC2 instances.

There's going to be one default VPC

for AWS region we are using.

Subnets are tied to a specific Availability Zones.

And this is where we've been launching our EC2 instances.

And they represent a network partition of your VPC.

The Internet Gateway is what gives access to

our instances in our public subnets to the internet, okay?

And they are defined at the VPC level.

NAT Gateways and NAT Instances will give

internet access this time to our private subnets

through our EC2 instances and private subnets.

NACLs or Network ACLs are stateless subnet rules firewalls

for inbound and outbound whereas Security Groups,

we've seen them before are stateful,

they operate at the EC2 instance level

or the ENI and they can reference other security groups.

For VPC Peering, this allows us to connect two VPC together

as long as they are not overlapping

and this is not a transitive VPC Peering

therefore you need to establish VPC Peering connection

between all your VPC if you want to have them

connected with each other.

VPC Endpoints is going to provide you private access

to AWS services within your VPC,

and that is something that we will see

in the future lectures for some services.

And VPC Flow Logs will give you your network traffic logs

to ensure that you can debug if something is access denied,

or if traffic is locked or allowed within your VPC.

Finally, let's establish connection

from your on-premises data center to AWS,

you have the Site to Site VPN which is to

have a VPN connection over the public internet

and your Direct Connect if

you want a direct private connection to AWS.

So, don't stress if you didn't understand everything

in that section, you can come back to it later.

As I said in the course, I will be highlighting

all the specific VPC features we need.

And then come back to it if you want at the end

but don't stress it out.

I'm really, really serious about it.

I just want to give you a bit more information

than what you needed just to make sure

we are on the same page, and let's go,

let's move on with this course.

Trust me it's gonna get a lot more developed very very soon.

All right, that's it.

I will see you in the next lecture.