Now that we have created users and groups,

it is time for us to protect these users and groups

from being compromised.

So for this we can have two defense mechanisms.

The first one is to define what's called a Password Policy.

Why?

Well, because the stronger the password you use

the more security for your accounts.

So in AWS, you can set up a password policy

with different options.

The first one is you can set a minimum password length,

and you can require specific character types,

for example, you may want to have an uppercase letter,

lowercase letter, number, non-alphanumeric characters,

for example a question mark and so on.

Then you can allow or not, IAM users

to change their own passwords

or you can require users to change their password,

after some time, to make your password expired, for example,

to say every 90 days, users have to change their passwords.

Finally, you can also prevent password reuse

so that users when they change their passwords,

don't change it to the one they already have

or change it to the one they had before.

So this is great, a password policy, really is helpful,

against brute force attacks on your accounts.

But there's a second defense mechanism

that you need to know, going into the exam,

and this is the Multi Factor Authentication or MFA.

It is possible you already to use it, on some websites,

but on AWS it's a must and it's very recommended to use it.

So, users have access to your account,

and they can possibly do a lot of things,

especially if they're, administrators,

they can change configuration, delete resources

and other things.

So you absolutely want to protect at least

your Root Accounts and hopefully all your IAM users.

So how do you protect them on top of the password?

Well, you use an MFA device.

So what is MFA?

MFA is using the combination of a password that you know,

and a security device that you own,

and these two things together,

have a much greater security than just a password.

So for example, let us take Alice.

Alice knows her password,

but she also has an MFA generating token,

and by using these things together while logging in,

she is going to be able to do a successful login on MFA.

So the benefit of MFA is that even if Alice

has lost her password, because it's stolen or it's hacked,

the account will not be compromised because the hacker,

will need to also get a hold of the physical device

of Alice that could be a phone for example to do a login.

Obviously, that is much less likely.

So what are the MFA devices option in AWS

and you should know them going to the exam

but don't worry they're quite simple.

The first one is a Virtual MFA device,

this is what we'll be using in the hands on

and so you can use Google Authenticator,

which is just working on one phone at a time,

or using Authy which is multi-device

they both work the same except one is multi-device.

And personally I use Authy because I like the fact that

I can use it on my computer and on my phones.

So, for Authy you have support

for multiple tokens on a single device.

So, that means that with a Virtual MFA device,

you can have your root account, your IAM user,

and another account, and another IAM user,

its up to you, you can have as many users

and accounts as you want on your Virtual MFA device,

which make it a very easy solution to use.

Now we have another thing called

a Universal 2nd Factor or U2F Security Key,

and that is a physical device, for example,

a YubiKey by Yubico and Yubico is a 3rd party to AWS,

this is mot the AWS that provided, this is a 3rd party

and we use a physical device,

because maybe it's super easy, you put it your Key Fobs

and you're good to go.

So this YubiKey supports multiple root and IAM users

using a single security so you don't need as many keys

as users otherwise that will be a nightmare.

Then your other options,

you have a Hardware Key Fob MFA device

for example this one provided by Gemalto

which is also a third party to AWS

and finally, if you are using the cloud of the government

in the US, the AWS GovCloud then you have a special Key Fob,

that looks like this, that is provided by SurePassID

which is also a 3rd party.

So that's it, we've seen the theory

on how to protect your account,

but let's go to the next lecture to implement that.

So I will see you in the next lecture.

So we are going to first define

a password policy.

For this, click on account settings on the left hand side.

You will find password policy and you can edit it.

So here we can use the IAM default password policy,

which composes of these kind of requirements,

or we can customize the password policy

and force a password minimum length.

We can also require uppercase letter, lowercase letter,

a number, a non alphanumeric character.

We can also turn on password expiration to turn on,

for example, expire after 90 days,

or that a password expiration

requires administrative resets,

or we can allow the users to change their own password

or we can prevent password reuse.

So this password process can be edited

directly from the IAM console,

and that's the first part of security.

The second part is around setting

multi-factor authentication for your route account.

So if you click on the account name

and then click on security credentials,

if you are logged in with the root user,

you will see my security credentials, root user.

Now, there is a way for you

to actually protect your root user,

which is the most important account in your AWS account,

and you can protect it by using multifactor authentication.

Now, just so you know, I'm going to do it

and demonstrate how it works in front of you,

but I've had students

who locked themselves out of their accounts

because they lost access

to their multi-factor authentication device.

As such, if you think you are running the risk

of losing your iPhone or whatever, do not do this.

Just keep your phone with you, just watch my video.

It will be good enough.

If you want to practice along with me, you can as well.

And you can also delete the MFA device after activating it.

Okay? But let's go ahead and assign an MFA device.

So I will call this one MyiPhone,

because this is what I have,

but you can name it whatever you want.

Then you can select the type of MFA device.

So it could be an authenticator app,

which is something I'm going to use,

but also it can be a security key or a hardware TOTP token.

So I'm going to use an authenticator app

because it will be virtual.

And now we go into the setup of the app.

So there's a list of compatible applications right here.

You can find here for Android and for iOS

that we know work well with AWS.

And as such, I'm going to use

the Twilio Authy Authenticator, which is an app I like.

And that's something that can be used on your computer,

on your devices.

So it's kind of nice.

So what I have to do then

is actually launch the app on my phone

and then you click on show QR code.

So when you show a QR code,

you need to scan this QR code directly on your phone.

So for this, you add an account,

you scan the QR code right here,

and once scanned it will add the account

and start naming it.

So we'll just save this, this looks good.

And then we get access to MFA codes.

So there is first, the first MFA code, so 301935.

So this is a code generated by my iPhone in real time.

And this code is going to change over time.

And the reason why these two codes are asked by AWS

is that it wants to make sure that the MFA device

is set up correctly and that the codes are accurate.

So the second code is 792843.

And of course there will be difference for your device.

And once these two codes are entered, you click on add MFA.

And as you can see, we can reach there

up to eight MFA devices currently,

and you can scroll down and see them right here on the list.

So the multi-factor authentication, MFA,

one, it's called MyiPhone that's been created right now.

So if you wanted to remove it, you can remove it and so on.

But so how do we use MFA?

Well, now if I log out of AWS and I log back in,

so I'm going to use my router account and my password.

Now after doing a successful login,

I have the MFA code to enter.

And so I open my app and enter the code that I see,

and press submit.

And this way IAM logged in.

And this is perfect because well, we had an extra level

of security on our accounts.

So that's it for this lecture.

I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.