So we have to talk about

the last component of IAM,

which is called IAM Roles.

So some AWS services that we'll be launching

throughout this course will need to perform actions

on our behalf, on our account, okay?

And for this to do these actions,

they're just like users,

they will need some kind of permissions.

So we need to assign permissions to AWS services

and to do so,

we're going to create what's called an IAM Role.

So these IAM role will be just like a user,

but they are intended to be used not by physical people,

but instead they will be used by AWS services.

So what does that mean?

It's a bit confusing.

So for example,

we are going to create throughout this course,

an EC2 Instance.

An EC2 Instance is just like a virtual server,

and we'll see this in the next section.

But so this EC2 Instance may want to

perform some actions on AWS and to do so,

we need to give permissions to our EC2 Instance.

To do so, we're going to create an IAM Role and together

they're going to make one entity.

And together, once the EC2 Instance is trying

to access some information from AWS,

then it will use the IAM Role.

And if the permission assigned to the IAM Role is correct,

then we're going to get access to the call

we're trying to make.

So some common roles include

what I just showed you, EC2 Instance roles,

but also other things that perform actions against AWS

we'll see in this course.

For example, Lambda Function Roles or CloudFormation.

So I know this is a high level of review.

In the next lecture we'll be creating a role,

but we won't be using it yet until the next section,

but let's go ahead and create a role.

I will see you in the next lecture.

So let's practice using roles.

So on the left hand side, you click on roles,

and you can see that some roles may have already

been created for your accounts.

Could be two, could be more. It doesn't matter.

But what we're going to do is that we're going to

create our own role in here.

So a role is a way to give AWS entities permissions

to do stuff on AWS.

As you can see, you have different kind of roles.

You can create actually five of them right now.

But the one that you need to know about for this hands-on

and for the exam is going to be a role for an AWS service.

So let's choose this one, and then we need to choose

for which service we want this role to apply to.

So as you can see, if you click on it,

you have commonly used services, such as EC2 and Lambda,

or a role for pretty much every service on AWS.

So it's a very common thing to know in AWS,

and that's why we learn about it.

So we are going to create a role for an EC2 instance

when we get to the EC2 section.

And so we choose EC2, and the use case is just EC2.

We disregard any of these.

So click on next, and now that we create a role

for an EC2 instance, we need to attach a policy.

So I'm going to attach the IAM read only access

to allow my EC2 instance to read whatever is in IAM.

Let's click on next.

Next do meet to enter a demo, a role name,

so DemoRoleForEC2 is going to be my role name,

and then we select the trusted entities.

So this is saying, hey, this role can be assumed

by the EC2 service, and this is what defines it

as a role for Amazon EC2.

We are verifying the permissions,

yes, it has IAM read only access,

and we create this role.

So now my role is created.

As you can see, it appears in my role lists.

And we can verify that the permissions

are correct for this role.

Now, we cannot use this role just yet

because we need to get to the EC2 section,

but we will use it when we get to it.

In the meantime, you've seen how to create a role

for Amazon EC2 and how to attach correct permissions to it.

So that's it for this lecture.

I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.