So let's understand a very important concept,

which is event

and the context objects in your Lambda function.

So let's take an example where your Lambda function

is invoked, for example, by a EventBridge rule.

So what's going to happen

is that EventBridge is going to create an event

and that event is going to be passed to your Lambda function

and your Lambda function will receive that event,

and it's called the event object.

And the event object includes a lot of detail around, well,

the event itself.

Where it was emitted from

and the service itself will include a lot

of data related to that event in the event.

But we also have the context object.

So this is the second part of your Lambda function

and this is more some metadata around your function,

such as the request ID from AWS, your function name,

the log group associated with your Lambda function,

the memory limit, and so on.

So this event object and this context object

are very different but very complementary.

So the event object is a JSON-formatted document

that contains data that the function is going to process.

So the invoking service, for example,

EventBridge or SQS or SNS or whatever you want

will contain all the information needed

for your Lambda function to process the events.

Then based on the runtime you're using,

this event object is going to be converted into an object.

For example, if you're using Python,

it's is going to be converted into a dictionary.

So any kind of input, arguments

or invoking service arguments are going to be contained

in the event object.

The context object, on the other hand,

provides methods about the data

of the invocation itself and the runtime environment.

So this is passed to your Lambda function at runtime

and from the context object,

we can get the AWS request ID, the function name,

the memory limit in megabytes and so on, and we can use

that concept information as well in our Lambda function.

So in your code, you will see, for example, a handler.

I'm using Python,

so the handler has an event and has a context,

and the event will have information, for example,

such as the source of the event or the region

of the event and so on that we can print

to the console or the context will have information,

such as the request ID, the function ARN, the function name,

the memory limits in megabytes, and then, for example,

some information about CloudWatch Logs,

such as the stream name or the group name.

So now you'll be able to choose the correct event

or context to get the specific information requested

from you at the exam.

Okay, that's it for this lecture.

I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.

