So, we have the EB CLI available to us,

but there is an additional CLI called,

the "Elastic Beanstalk CLI,"

which makes working with Beanstalk from the CLI much easier.

And there's a bunch of commands

such as eb create, eb status,

health, events, logs, open,

deploy, config, terminate,

and all these commands and more

can help you reproduce what we've been doing

from the Elastic Beanstalk console,

but with a command line interface.

Now, it's helpful to use the EB CLI

when you want to automate your development pipelines.

It is not necessary to know these commands

going into the developer exam.

It is more necessary to know them

when you go into the DevOps exam.

So, I deal with those in my DevOps exam.

So there will be no hands on on the EB CLI,

but just you know,

the EB CLI does exist and helps you

speed up your efficiency when using the CLI

against Elastic Beanstalk.

Now, this Elastic Beanstalk CLI

helps you with deploying your Beanstalk application.

So, regardless, to deploy a Beanstalk application,

you need to describe your dependencies.

So for example, you need to create

a requirements.txt for Python

or you create a package.json for Node.js.

Then you package all your code as a zip

and you described your dependencies in that file.

So as we said, these two files.

Then you upload the zip file into Beanstalk.

This will create a new app version

and then when the app version is uploaded,

we can deploy it using the console or using the CLI.

We can do the exact same thing with the EB CLI,

it will create a zip file,

upload that zip and deploy it.

That zip, by the way, when you upload it onto Beanstalk,

it actually gets uploaded onto Amazon history,

and then refers the Amazon is free bundle

from the Beanstalk interface.

Okay, so then once this is done,

Beanstalk will take these zips

and will deploy them onto each EC2 instances,

they will resolve the dependencies from the requirements,

the Python or the package of json for Node.js,

and then the application will start.

This is the theory lectures that should

explain you the backend process of how Beanstalk works.

If you want to replay, try to go on the documentation

website and install the EB CLI.

But just so you know, this is out of scope of the exam

and out of scope for this course

so I don't want to tell you with so many details,

just know that it exists and hopefully that was helpful.

I will see you in the next lecture.