OK so we have our application it's in the cloud.

It's running.

And your manager calls you at 2:00 a.m. and say it's not running anymore.

What happened?

Well we've deployed her application but we forgot to turn on monitoring.

Monitoring is so important and it will make sure that your applications are running the right way.

Such as you can see what's happening with the logs with the metrics with tracing and audits who made what's

in your AWS infrastructure.

This section is so important because as a developer.

I never deployed an application in AWS without enabling some kind of monitoring.

I know you're excited to learn about monitoring!

Let's go.

Okay, welcome to this section

on monitoring, troubleshooting, and audits.

We are going to learn about CloudWatch,

X-Ray, and CloudTrail and to me

it's one of the most exciting section.

So why is monitoring important?

I think you already know the answer

but I like to say it out loud.

We know how to deploy applications.

We have seen how to do it safely,

automatically using infrastructure as code,

leveraging the best AWS components.

So we know how to do deployments.

What we don't know is that once our applications

are deployed, our users don't really care how we did it.

They don't care if we used Elastic Beanstalk,

they don't care if we use infrastructure as code.

It's great that we did it, it's an edging prowess,

but the users don't care.

The users only care that the application is working.

And so what we know to work is, for example, the latency.

Will the application latency increase over time and why?

Outages, you know, if there's an outage,

well, our customer experience should not be degraded, okay?

It should still be good, that's why we deploy

highly available things.

And then if the user contacts the IT departments

or complaining, that's really, really bad.

We don't want to be alerted of problems by our users,

we kind of want to be able to do troubleshooting

and remediation beforehand.

So internally, can we prevent issues before they happen,

or if they happen, can we see them before our users?

Can we also monitor performance and cost?

Can we look at trends in terms of how things scale,

in terms of patterns of outages?

And, you know, what can we learn and how can we improve?

Thanks to this monitoring.

So to me monitoring is really, really, really important.

Now, in AWS there, CloudWatch.

And CloudWatch allows you to collect metrics.

It allows you to collect logs to monitor

and analyze the log files.

Events to send notifications when certain things happen

in your AWS environment.

And alarms to react in real time

to metrics events and even logs.

Then we have X-Ray and X-Ray is kind of a new service

that is not very popular yet,

but I think it is one of the most awesome ones.

And so it allows you to troubleshoot

your application performance and errors,

so we'll see the latency and we'll see the errors just live.

And it allows us to do something really cool

called distributed tracing of microservices.

So if you have a lot of services

doing a lot of things and calling one another,

or if you're in track with many AWS components,

such as, you know, S3, DynamoDB, et cetera,

then you're able to see how your application makes calls

and how long they take and you can trace your call

all the way through, which is really, really nice.

CloudTrail is allowing you to do internal monitoring

of your API calls being made, and also audit the changes

made to AWS resources by your users.

So overall, these three technologies all together

gives you a really solid combination to monitor AWS.

We're going to learn about these in this section.

So see you in the next lecture.

