So now let's talk

about CloudWatch Synthetics Canary.

So the idea is that you have a configurable script

and that script is going to be run from CloudWatch

and is going to be able to monitor your APIs, your URLs

or your websites.

And the idea is that you define a script,

and this script is going to reproduce programmatically

what your customers do.

And the idea is that, for example,

if your customer goes onto a product webpage

and then he clicks and he puts add to cart,

goes to the checkout, puts the credit card details

and make sure the checkout works, you can test all of this

and reproduce it with CloudWatch Synthetics Canary.

And the idea is that if somehow this script fails,

that means you found an issue and it's good

for you to find this issue before your customers do.

So the idea is that you can check

whether or not some flows are working.

We can also check the availability and latency

of some endpoints, and you can even store load time data

and even take screenshots of the UI.

So let's take an example.

We have an application deployed in us-east-1,

and then we're going to use CloudWatch Synthetics Canary

to monitor the application.

In case things fail,

then a CloudWatch alarm is going to be triggered,

which is then going to invoke a Lambda function.

And a Lambda function may want to update the DNS record

of Route 53 to another instance in us-west-2

so that we redirect to a version

of the application that we know is working.

That's just one way of doing things.

So this script that Synthetics Canary can run can be written

in Node.js or Python.

And on top of it from within Synthetics Canary,

you have access to a headless Google Chrome browser.

So you can do anything you would do with Google Chrome,

Chrome directly from within Synthetics Canary.

You can choose to run your script once

or on a regular schedule.

For example, if you wanted to check the availability

of your endpoints.

There's also some blueprints that you can leverage.

So you have the Heartbeat Monitor to load the URL,

store screenshots and an HTTP archive file

and make sure that everything is working correctly.

The API Canary to test basic read and write functions

of REST APIs.

You have the Broken Link Checker

to check all the links inside of the URL you're testing,

making sure none of them actually lead you

to a broken link.

Visual monitoring to compare a screenshot taken

during the canary run

with a baseline screenshot that you've taken before.

Canary Recorder, which is used

with CloudWatch Synthetics Recorder.

And it's a way for you to record your actions on a website

and then automatically out of it, a script will be generated

and then you can run it directly on Synthetics Canary

and automatically, the actions will be repeated.

And finally, a GUI Workflow Builder.

So that's, for example, you can verify

that the actions taken on your webpage with, for example,

with the login form are working correctly.

Okay, so that's it for CloudWatch Synthetics Canary.

I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.