So, now let's talk about outputs

and CloudFormation.

So, the output section is optional

and it declares optional output values,

but then if we declare them,

we can import these values into other stacks.

And so, the idea is that we can link, for example,

a network stack which has an exported output,

which is your VPC ID,

and we can reference that exported outputted value

from another application stack.

So this is very handy.

We can also view the values of the outputs in the console

or by using the CLA.

And so it's very helpful to have an output if you define,

for example, a network CloudFormation stack,

and then you output the VPC IDs and the Subnet IDs

and reuse them other ways.

It's the best way

to also perform some collaboration across stacks

and let experts handle their own stacks

and collaborate this way.

So, if you have a look at the output,

here is a sample output.

So, we are creating an SSH security group

as part of one template.

And then we create an output

that has a reference to the security group.

And this specific output also has an export block,

which is going to export the value

of this output as a name.

So the name is SSHSecurityGroup.

And this name has to be unique across all your exports

in one specific region.

And so now we can access through this SSH Security Group,

the security group ID

for our SSH Security Group in our company.

So, how do we reuse it?

Well, here is another CloudFormation template,

and this one will leverage the security group from before.

So it has an import value function,

as you can see right now, outlined in red.

And so that means that for this EC2 instance

that we're creating, the security group

has its value imported from another stack

in which we had exported the value, which was right here.

So this is how you link

two different CloudFormation templates.

And therefore, because they're linked,

it's impossible for you to delete the first stack

that has its value exported

until all the other ones don't reference it anymore.

So it's important to know.

Okay, so that's it for this lecture.

Now you know about outputs.

I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.